.TH NBAR_ARCHIVE_HEADER_T 3 "September 2024" "libnbar Library" "Library Structures Manual"
.SH NAME
.B nbar_archive_header_t
\- Structure representing the header of an NBAR archive.

.SH SYNOPSIS
#include "libnbar.h"

.SH DESCRIPTION
The \fBnbar_archive_header_t\fP structure holds metadata about the contents of an NBAR archive. This header is used to validate and interpret the files within the archive.

The structure contains the following members:
.TP
.B _magic_left
A \fBuint16_t\fP that must be equal to \fB0x0617\fP. This serves as a magic number to identify the start of the archive header.
.TP
.B file_name_length_1
A \fBuint8_t\fP representing the length of the first file name.
.TP
.B file_name_length_2
A \fBuint8_t\fP representing the length of the second file name.
.TP
.B file_name_1
A \fBchar\fP array of size 256 that stores the name of the first file in the archive.
.TP
.B file_name_2
A \fBchar\fP array of size 256 that stores the name of the second file in the archive.
.TP
.B file_checksum_1
A \fBchar\fP array of size \fBcrypto_hash_sha512_BYTES\fP that holds the SHA-512 checksum of the first file.
.TP
.B file_checksum_2
A \fBchar\fP array of size \fBcrypto_hash_sha512_BYTES\fP that holds the SHA-512 checksum of the second file.
.TP
.B file_length_1
A \fBuint64_t\fP indicating the length of the first file in bytes.
.TP
.B file_length_2
A \fBuint64_t\fP indicating the length of the second file in bytes.
.TP
.B _magic_right
A \fBuint16_t\fP that must be equal to \fB0x1033\fP. This serves as a magic number to identify the end of the archive header.

.SH USAGE
This structure is used internally by the \fBlibnbar\fP library functions to handle and validate the metadata of NBAR archives. Users generally do not interact with this structure directly.

.SH SEE ALSO
.B nbar_fopen(3), nbar_fclose(3), nbar_archive_t(3)

.SH AUTHOR
Written by [Sparkles-Sericea] for the [Rainbow Linux] project.

.SH REPORTING BUGS
Report bugs to [https://github.com/rainbow-linux/libnbar/issues].