.TH LIBNBAR 3 "September 2024" "libnbar Library" "Library Functions Manual"
.SH NAME
.B libnbar
\- A library for manipulating Non-Binary Archive (NBAR) files.

.SH SYNOPSIS
.nf
#include "libnbar.h"
.B nbar_archive_t *
.B nbar_fopen(char *filename, char *mode);
.B void
.B nbar_fclose(nbar_archive_t *handle);
.fi

.SH DESCRIPTION
The \fBlibnbar\fP library provides functions to work with the Non-Binary Archive (NBAR) format. The NBAR format is designed to hold a pair of related files together in a single archive. This is particularly useful for applications that require file pairs to function correctly.

The NBAR format addresses the common issue of distributing file pairs separately, which complicates their use. It aims to simplify this by packaging related files together.

The library is primarily used in the context of the \fBiris package manager\fP (\fBiris(8)\fP), but it can be applied in other scenarios requiring paired files. Examples of paired files include:
.TP
.B zstd-compressed files and compression dictionaries
.TP
.B Checksum files and GPG keys
.TP
.B Large block files and their checksums
.TP
.B Software packages and their signature files

.SH FUNCTIONS
.TP
.B nbar_fopen
Opens an NBAR archive file, validates its contents, and loads the files into temporary memory. See \fBnbar_fopen(3)\fP for detailed usage.
.TP
.B nbar_fclose
Closes an open NBAR archive, releasing all associated resources. See \fBnbar_fclose(3)\fP for detailed usage.

.SH SEE ALSO
.B nbar_fopen(3), nbar_fclose(3), sodium_init(3), crypto_hash_sha512(3), iris(8)

.SH AUTHOR
Written by [Sparkles-Sericea] for the [Rainbow Linux] project.

.SH REPORTING BUGS
Report bugs to [https://github.com/rainbow-linux/libnbar/issues].