.TH NBAR_FOPEN 3 "September 2024" "libnbar Library" "Library Functions Manual"
.SH NAME
.B nbar_fopen
\- Open an NBAR archive file.

.SH SYNOPSIS
.nf
#include "libnbar.h"
.B nbar_archive_t *
.B nbar_fopen(char *filename, char *mode);
.fi

.SH DESCRIPTION
.B nbar_fopen
opens an NBAR archive file, validates its header, and loads the files contained in the archive into temporary memory.

The function performs several tasks:
- Opens the specified archive file with the given mode.
- Reads and verifies the archive's header, including magic numbers and file checksums.
- Creates temporary memory files for the two files contained in the archive.
- Checks the integrity of the files using SHA-512 checksums.

The function is typically used in conjunction with \fBnbar_fclose(3)\fP to manage the lifecycle of the archive.

.SH PARAMETERS
.TP
.B \fIfilename\fP
Path to the NBAR archive file to be opened.
.TP
.B \fImode\fP
File mode for opening the archive (e.g., "r" for read).

.SH RETURN VALUE
Returns a pointer to an \fBnbar_archive_t\fP structure on success, or \fBNULL\fP if the file could not be opened or validated.

.SH ERRORS
Sets \fBerrno\fP on failure, including:
.TP
.B EILSEQ
Invalid magic numbers or checksum mismatches.
.TP
.B ENOMEM
Memory allocation failure.
.TP
.B EINVAL
Invalid mode or parameters.

.SH EXAMPLE
.nf
#include "libnbar.h"
#include <stdio.h>
#include <sodium.h>

int main() {
    if (sodium_init() < 0) {
        fprintf(stderr, "Failed to initialize libsodium\n");
        return 1;
    }

    nbar_archive_t *archive = nbar_fopen("archive.nbar", "r");
    if (!archive) {
        perror("Failed to open archive");
        return 1;
    }

    // Use the archive...

    nbar_fclose(archive);
    return 0;
}
.fi

.SH SEE ALSO
.B nbar_fclose(3), sodium_init(3), crypto_hash_sha512(3), iris(8)

.SH AUTHOR
Written by [Sparkles-Sericea] for the [Rainbow Linux] project.

.SH REPORTING BUGS
Report bugs to [https://github.com/rainbow-linux/libnbar/issues].